添加多人对战文档 (#641)
taptap/tds-docs: i18n/en/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/sdk/multiplayer/features.mdx

- The API domain can be found in **App Configuration > Domain Configuration > API**, refer to the documentation on [Domains](/sdk/domain/guide/) for more information.

</Conditional>

</>
<>

```cs
Play.UserID = "tarara";
// You can declare the game version when connecting to the server, players with different versions won't match in the same room
Play.Connect("0.0.1");
```

</>
</MultiLang>

### Player Matching

#### Random Matching

The most common scenario for single players is to quickly match with other players. The implementation steps are as follows:

1、Call `JoinRandomRoom` to start matching.

<MultiLang kind="play">
<>

```js
client
  .joinRandomRoom()
  .then(() => {
    // Successfully joined the room
  })
  .catch(console.error);
```

</>
<>

```cs
Play.JoinRandomRoom();
```

</>
</MultiLang>

2、In ideal cases, players will enter a room with available slots and start the game.

<MultiLang kind="play">
<>

```js
// Use the Promise returned by joinRandomRoom to determine if joining the room was successful in the JavaScript SDK
```

</>
<>

```cs
play.On(Event.ROOM_JOINED, (evtData) => {
  // Successfully joined the room

});
```

</>
</MultiLang>

> 3、If there is no empty room, it will fail to join. At this point in the failure to trigger the callback to create a room, wait for others to join when creating the room:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3、If there is no empty room, it will fail to join. At this point we can create a room in the callback triggered by the failure and wait for others to join. When creating the room:
```

- You don't need to worry about the name of the room.

> - The default maximum number of people in a room is 10, you can set MaxPlayerCount to limit the maximum number of people.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The default maximum number of people in a room is 10. You can set MaxPlayerCount to limit the maximum number of people.
```

> - Set [Retention time after player dropped](/sdk/multiplayer/guide/cs/#retain-disconnected-user-in-room), if the player is added back to the room within the valid time, the room will still retain the player's custom attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set [Retention time after player dropped](/sdk/multiplayer/guide/cs/#retain-disconnected-user-in-room). If the player is added back to the room within the valid time, the room will still retain the player's custom attributes.
```

<MultiLang kind="play">
<>

```js
client
  .joinRandomRoom()
  .then()
  .catch((error) => {
    if (error.code === 4301) {
      const options = {
        // Set the maximum number of people so that when the room is full, the server will not match new players in.
        maxPlayerCount: 4,
        // Set the hold time after a player is dropped to 120 seconds
        playerTtl: 120,
      };
      // Creating a Room
      client
        .createRoom({
          roomOptions: options,
        })
        .then(() => {
          // Room created successfully
        });
    }
  });
```

</>
<>

```cs
// This callback is triggered when joining fails
play.On(Event.ROOM_JOIN_FAILED, (evtData) =>
{
  var options = new RoomOptions()
  {
 // Set the maximum number of players so that when the room is full, the server won't match new players in.
     MaxPlayerCount = 4,
    // Set the hold time after a player is dropped to 120 seconds.
    PlayerTtl = 120,
  };
  play.CreateRoom(roomOptions: options);
});
```

</>
</MultiLang>

#### Customised room matching rules

> There are times when we want to match players with similar levels. For example, if the current player is level 5, he can only be matched with players of level 0-10, and players above level 10 cannot be matched. This scenario can be realised by setting attributes for the room, the logic is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are times when we want to match players with similar levels. For example, if the current player is level 5, he can only be matched with players of level 0-10, and players above level 10 cannot be matched. This scenario can be realised by setting attributes for the room. The logic is as follows:
```

  matchLevel = 1;
} else {
  matchLevel = 2;
}
```

</>
<>

```cs
int matchLevel = 0;
if (level < 10) {
  matchLevel = 1;
} else {
  matchLevel = 2;
}
```

</>
</MultiLang>

2、Join the room according to the matching attributes

<MultiLang kind="play">
<>

```js
const matchProps = {
  level: matchLevel,
};

client
  .joinRandomRoom({ matchProperties: matchProps })
  .then(() => {
    // Successfully joined the room
  })
  .catch(console.error);
```

</>
<>

```cs
Hashtable matchProp = new Hashtable();
matchProp.Add("matchLevel", matchLevel);
Play.JoinRandomRoom(matchProp);
```

</>
</MultiLang>

3. If randomly joining a room fails, a room with matching attributes is created to wait for other people of the same level to join.

<MultiLang kind="play">
<>

```js
const matchProps = {
  level: matchLevel,
};

client
  .joinRandomRoom({ matchProperties: matchProps })
  .then()
  .catch((error) => {
    if (error.code === 4301) {
      const options = {
      // Set the maximum number of people so that when the room is full, the server won't match new players in.
        maxPlayerCount: 4,
        // Set the hold time after a player is dropped to 120 seconds
        playerTtl: 120,

>         // Room customisation properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // Custom properties of the room
```

<MultiLang kind="play">
<>

```js
const options = {
// Room invisible
  visible: false,
};
client
  .createRoom({
    roomOptions: options,
  })
  .then()
  .catch(console.error);
```

</>
<>

```cs
var options = new RoomOptions()
{
  Visible = false,
};
play.CreateRoom(roomOptions: options);
```

</>
</MultiLang>

2. PlayerA tells PlayerB the name of the room through some kind of communication (e.g. [instant messaging](/sdk/im/features/)).

3. PlayerB joins the room based on the room name.

<MultiLang kind="play">

<>

```js
client.joinRoom("LiLeiRoom").then().catch(console.error);
```

</>
<>

```cs
Play.JoinRoom(roomName);
```

</>
</MultiLang>

##### Friends and strangers playing together

PlayerA invites PlayerB via some communication method (e.g. [Instant Messaging](/sdk/im/features/)), and PlayerB accepts the invitation.

1、PlayerA sets up a match with PlayerB to enter a room.

<MultiLang kind="play">
<>

```js
client
  .joinRandomRoom({ expectedUserIds: ["playerB"] })
  .then(() => {
    // Join Success
  })
  .catch(console.error);
```

</>
<>

```cs
Play.JoinRandomRoom(expectedUserIds: new string[] {"playerB"});
```

</>
</MultiLang>

> 2、If there are enough empty rooms, PlayerA joins successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2、If there is enough space in the room, PlayerA joins successfully.
```

<MultiLang kind="play">
<>

```js
// JavaScript SDK determines whether a room has been successfully joined by using the joinRandomRoom Promise.
```

</>
<>

```cs
play.On(Event.ROOM_JOINED, (evtData) => {

>   // TODO can do jump scenes and so on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // TODO can do things like jumping to other scenes
```

});
```

</>
</MultiLang>

PlayerA tells PlayerB the roomName of the room it has joined via some form of communication (e.g. [instant messaging](/sdk/im/features/)), and PlayerB joins the room based on the roomName.

<MultiLang kind="play">
<>

```js
client.joinRoom("LiLeiRoom").then().catch(console.error);
```

</>
<>

```cs
Play.JoinRoom(roomName);
```

</>
</MultiLang>

3. If there is no suitable room then create and join the room:

<MultiLang kind="play">
<>

```js
const expectedUserIds = ["playerB"];
client
  .joinRandomRoom({ expectedUserIds })
  .then()
  .catch((error) => {

>     // No room available or insufficient room location

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // No room available or insufficient room space
```

    if (error.code === 4301 || error.code === 4302) {
      client
        .createRoom({
          expectedUserIds: expectedUserIds,
        })
        .then()
        .catch(console.error);
    }
  });
```

</>
<>

```cs
play.On(Event.ROOM_JOIN_FAILED, (error) => {
  var expectedUserIds = new List<string>() { "cr3_2" };
  Play.CreateRoom(expectedUserIds: expectedUserIds);
});
```

</>
</MultiLang>

After PlayerA creates a room, it tells PlayerB the roomName of the room it has joined via some form of communication (e.g., [instant messaging](/sdk/im/features/)), and PlayerB joins the room based on the roomName.

<MultiLang kind="play">
<>

```js
client.joinRoom("LiLeiRoom").then().catch(console.error);
```

</>
<>

```cs
Play.JoinRoom(roomName);
```

</>
</MultiLang>

For other matching interfaces, see the room matching documentation: [JavaScript](/sdk/multiplayer/guide/js/#room-matching), [C#](/sdk/multiplayer/guide/cs/#room-matching).

### In game

> #### Related concepts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Relevant concepts
```

> - **MasterClient**: Multiplayer online matchmaking uses the [MasterClient](/sdk/multiplayer/guide/js/#masterclient) to act as a computational host on the client side, where the MasterClient controls the game logic, such as deciding whether to start or end the game, who should play the next round, how much gold should be deducted from the player, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **MasterClient**: Multiplayer uses the [MasterClient](/sdk/multiplayer/guide/js/#masterclient) to act as a computational host on the client side, where the MasterClient controls the game logic, such as deciding whether to start or end the game, who should play the next round, how many coins should be deducted from the player, etc.
```

> - **Custom Attributes**: Custom attributes are divided into [Room Custom Attributes](/sdk/multiplayer/guide/js/#room-custom-attributes) and [Player Custom Attributes](/sdk/multiplayer/guide/js/#player-custom-attributes). We recommend adding game data to the custom attributes, such as the current room map, total coin bet, everyone's hand, etc. This way, when the MasterClient is transferred, the new MasterClient can get the latest data from the current game and continue to calculate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Custom Attributes**: Custom attributes are divided into [Room Custom Attributes](/sdk/multiplayer/guide/js/#room-custom-attributes) and [Player Custom Attributes](/sdk/multiplayer/guide/js/#player-custom-attributes). We recommend adding game data to the custom attributes, such as the current room map, total coin bet, everyone's cards, etc. This way, when the MasterClient is transferred, the new MasterClient can get the latest data from the current game and continue to calculate.
```

#### Starting the game

> Before the game starts, it is recommended that each player is ready. When all players are ready, the MasterClient will start the game. The room must be made invisible before the game starts to prevent other players from being matched during the game.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before the game starts, it is recommended that each player has a ready status. When all players are ready, the MasterClient will start the game. The room must be made invisible before the game starts to prevent other players from being matched during the game.
```

Player A sets the ready state by setting a custom property:

<MultiLang kind="play">
<>

```js
// Player setup readiness
const props = {
  ready: true,
};
// Request to set player attributes
play.player
  .setCustomProperties(props)
  .then(() => {
    // Setting properties succeeded
  })
  .catch(console.error);
```

</>
<>

```cs
// Player setup readiness
Hashtable prop = new Hashtable();
prop.Add("ready", true);
play.Player.SetCustomProperties(props);
```

</>
</MultiLang>

All players (including PlayerA) are notified of the event callback:

<MultiLang kind="play">
<>

```js
play.on(Event.PLAYER_CUSTOM_PROPERTIES_CHANGED, (data) => {
  // Only the MasterClient performs this operation.
  if (play.player.isMaster) {

>     // Check the number of prepared players in a method of your own writing, you can get the list of players via play.room.playerList.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Check the number of players who are ready in a method you defined; you can get the list of players via play.room.playerList.
```

    const readyPlayerCount = getReadyPlayerCount();

>     // Start the game if you're all set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Start the game if players are all set
```

    if (
      readyPlayersCount > 1 &&
      readyPlayersCount == play.room.playerList.length()
    ) {
      // Set the room to be invisible to avoid other players being matched in
      play.setRoomVisible(false);
      // Start the game
      start();
    }
  }
});
```

</>
<>

```cs

play.On(Event.PLAYER_CUSTOM_PROPERTIES_CHANGED, (evtData) => {
  // Only the MasterClient performs this operation.
  if (play.Player.IsMaster)
  {

>     // Check the number of prepared players in your own method, you can get the player list via play.Room.playerList.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Check the number of players who are ready in your own method; you can get the player list via play.Room.playerList.
```

    var readyPlayerCount = getReadyPlayerCount();

>     // Start the game if you're all set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Start the game if players are all set
```

    if (readyPlayersCount > 1 && readyPlayersCount == Play.Players.Count())
    {
      // Set the room to be invisible to avoid other players being matched in
      play.SetRoomVisible(false);
      // Start the game
      start();
    }
  }
});
```

</>
</MultiLang>

#### Sending messages in game

> Most messages in the game are sent to the [MasterClient](/sdk/multiplayer/guide/js/#masterclient), where the MasterClient crunches the numbers and decides what to do next. Suppose we have this scenario: Player A tells the MasterClient that he is done following cards, the MasterClient receives the message and informs everyone that the next player to act is Player B.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most messages in the game are sent to the [MasterClient](/sdk/multiplayer/guide/js/#masterclient), where the MasterClient crunches the numbers and decides what to do next. Suppose we have this scenario: Player A tells the MasterClient that he is done following cards, then the MasterClient receives the message and informs everyone that the next player to act is Player B.
```

The process of sending the message is as follows:

1、Player A sends a custom event `follow` to notify MasterClient that his follow is complete.

<MultiLang kind="play">
<>

```js
// Set the receiving group of the event to Master
const options = {
  receiverGroup: ReceiverGroup.MasterClient,
};

// Set the message to be sent
const eventData = {
  actorId: play.player.actorId,
};

// Set the Event Id
const FOLLOW_EVENT_ID = 1;

// Send event
play.sendEvent(FOLLOW_EVENT_ID, eventData, options);
```

</>
<>

```cs
// Set the receiving group of the event to Master
var options = new SendEventOptions() {
    ReceiverGroup = ReceiverGroup.MasterClient
};
// Set the message to be sent
var eventData = new Dictionary<string, object>();
eventData.Add("actorId", play.player.actorId);

// Set the Event Id
byte followEventId = 1;

// Send event
play.SendEvent(followEventId, eventData, options);
```

</>
</MultiLang>

> 2、The relevant method in the MasterClient is triggered, the MasterClient calculates that the next player to operate is PlayerB, and then calls the next method to notify all players that PlayerB currently needs to be operated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2、The relevant method in the MasterClient is triggered. The MasterClient calculates that the next player to act is PlayerB, and then calls the `next` method to notify all players that PlayerB currently needs to act.
```

<MultiLang kind="play">
<>

```js
// Event.CUSTOM_EVENT method will be triggered
play.on(Event.CUSTOM_EVENT, event => {
  const { eventId } = event;

  if (eventId === FOLLOW_EVENT_ID) {
    // follow custom events

>     // determine what PlayerB action is needed next

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Determine that PlayerB will act next
```

    int PlayerBId = getNextPlayerId();

>     // Notify all players that a PlayerB action is required next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Notify all players that PlayerB will act next
```

    // Content of the incident
    var eventData = new Dictionary<string, object>();
    eventData.Add("actorId", PlayerBId);

    // Send to all
    var options = new SendEventOptions()
    {
      ReceiverGroup = ReceiverGroup.All
    };

    play.SendEvent(nextEventId, eventData, options);
  }
});
```

</>
</MultiLang>

3、Relevant methods are triggered for all players.

<MultiLang kind="play">
<>

```js
// Event.CUSTOM_EVENT method will be triggered
play.on(Event.CUSTOM_EVENT, event => {
  const { eventId, eventData } = event;
  if (eventId === FOLLOW_EVENT_ID) {
    ......
  };
  if (eventId === NEXT_EVENT_ID) {
    // next event logic
    console.log('Next Player:'  + eventData.actorId);
  }
});

```

</>
<>

```cs
play.On(Event.CUSTOM_EVENT, (evtData) => {
  if (eventId == followEventId)
  {
    ......
  }

  if (eventId == nextEventId)
  {
    // next event logic
    var actorId = evtData["actorId"];
  }
});
```

</>
</MultiLang>

For more detailed usage and introduction, please refer to :

- [JavaScript - Custom Events](/sdk/multiplayer/guide/js/#customevents)
- [C# - Custom Events](/sdk/multiplayer/guide/cs/#customevents)

#### Disconnect and reconnect in game

> If the MasterClient is located on the client side, when the MasterClient is disconnected, the multiplayer service will pick another member to be the new MasterClient, and the original MasterClient will become a normal member after returning to the room. Please refer to [Disconnect Reconnect](/sdk/multiplayer/guide/js/#disconnect-reconnect) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the MasterClient is located on the client side, when the MasterClient is disconnected, the Multiplayer service will pick another member to be the new MasterClient, and the original MasterClient will become a normal member after returning to the room. Please refer to [Disconnect Reconnect](/sdk/multiplayer/guide/js/#disconnect-reconnect) for details.
```

#### Exiting the room

<MultiLang kind="play">
<>

```js
play
  .leaveRoom()
  .then(() => {
    // Successfully exited the room
  })
  .catch(console.error);
```

</>
<>

```cs
Play.LeaveRoom();
```

</>
</MultiLang>

## Documentation

### JavaScript

> - [Quickstart](/sdk/multiplayer/start/js/): Getting up to speed with online multiplayer and running a small demo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Quickstart](/sdk/multiplayer/start/js/): Getting up to speed with Multiplayer and running a small demo.
```
